Pd-142 update storage articles add promote function scale (#1765)
truenas/documentation: content/_includes/CloneAndPromoteSnapshotDataset.md

---
---

### Cloning to New Dataset

> The **Clone to New Dataset** button provides the cabability to create a clone of the selected snapshot. The clone appears directly beneath the parent dataset in the dataset tree hierarchy on the **Datasets** screen. Clicking the **Clone to New Dataset** button produces the following dialog box:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Clone to New Dataset** button creates a clone of the selected snapshot. The clone appears directly beneath the parent dataset in the dataset tree table on the **Datasets** screen. Clicking the **Clone to New Dataset** button opens a clone confirmation dialog. 
```

![StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetSCALE.png "Clone Snapshot to New Dataset")

> Clicking the **Clone** button confirms that the clone was successfully created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Clone** to confirm to clone the snapshot.
```

![StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetCreatedSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetCreatedSCALE.png "Clone Successfully Created")

### Promoting a Dataset

> The **Go to Datasets** button returns to the **Datasets** listings. Clicking on the clone name in the dataset listing populates the **Dataset Details** widget with the associated details. The **Promote** button is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Go to Datasets** button opens the **Datasets** screen. Click on the clone name in the dataset tree table to see the **Promote** option on the **Dataset Details** widget.
```

![StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetPromoteSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetPromoteSCALE.png "Clone Promote Button")

After clicking the **Promote** button, the clone dataset is promoted and this button no longer appears. 

![StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetAfterPromoteSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/StorageSnapshotCloneNewDatasetAfterPromoteSCALE.png "Clone After Promotion")

> The **Promote** button now appears on the demoted parent dataset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Promote** now displays on the **Dataset Details** widget when you select the demoted parent dataset.
```

![DatasetDetailsParentDataNotPromotedSCALE](/images/SCALE/22.12/DatasetDetailsParentDataNotPromotedSCALE.png "Demoted Volume Promote Button")

> When you promote a dataset you reverse the parent-child association. The dataset that the clone was created from is demoted, and this original dataset can then be destroyed. See [zfs-promote.8](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/man/8/zfs-promote.8.html).

Reviewer: This doesn't make sense.  In this process you create a dataset by cloning a snapshot (of a source dataset), this cloned snapshot get promoted so you can replace or delete that dataset that is the snapshot source dataset, and that then get demoted after you promote the cloned snapshot. Right? what I'm reading is not correctly describing these relationships or what is going on.
